README.md, before:

# Kennel39

Welcome to Kennel 39!  A  booking site for a small dog grooming business.

Click [here](https://kennel39.herokuapp.com/) to view the live site.

**TODO** - create mockup for deployed website using [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/).

eg. ![Mockup](docs/readme/responsive.png "Website preview at different resolutions")

## Scenario

A business tends to perform better with a steady stream of customers. It can accept walk ins and/or utilise some sort of appointment booking system.  At its simplest, this could be using a phone with a handwritten diary to record client names and their booking times.

Consider *Kennel39*, a small startup business (albeit fictional) whose only employee is its sole trader/owner.
Phone calls to book appointments can occur at anytime during business hours. Such calls can be difficult to take when lathering shampoo into someone's favourite pooch.

One solution is to increase automation.  It could be more convenient for the business to have customers book an appointment using a webform. This method has the advantage that appointments can also be made outside standard working hours.  In theory, this increases accessibility to business services thus improving productivity and turnover.

Another valid concern is that some people prefer to book a service passively using the web as opposed to making a phonecall, especially those of a shy disposition or from a younger generation as they are accustomed to this way of working.

Finally, a business with a professionally developed website tends to do better than its peers.  This is because new and existing customers gain a better insight of ethos, facilities and services on offer.  Confidence equals engagement.

With the above in mind, let's help The Kennel!

Commit message:

Write readme design thinking exercise

README.md, after:

# Kennel39

Welcome to Kennel 39!  A  booking site for a small dog grooming business.

Click [here](https://kennel39.herokuapp.com/) to view the live site.

**TODO** - create mockup for deployed website using [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/).

eg. ![Mockup](docs/readme/responsive.png "Website preview at different resolutions")

## Scenario

A business tends to perform better with a steady stream of customers. It can accept walk ins and/or utilise some sort of appointment booking system.  At its simplest, this could be using a phone with a handwritten diary to record client names and their booking times.

Consider *Kennel39*, a small startup business (albeit fictional) whose only employee is its sole trader/owner.
Phone calls to book appointments can occur at anytime during business hours. Such calls can be difficult to take when lathering shampoo into someone's favourite pooch.

One solution is to increase automation.  It could be more convenient for the business to have customers book an appointment using a webform. This method has the advantage that appointments can also be made outside standard working hours.  In theory, this increases accessibility to business services thus improving productivity and turnover.

Another valid concern is that some people prefer to book a service passively using the web as opposed to making a phonecall, especially those of a shy disposition or from a younger generation as they are accustomed to this way of working.

Finally, a business with a professionally developed website tends to do better than its peers.  This is because new and existing customers gain a better insight of ethos, facilities and services on offer.  Confidence equals engagement.

With the above in mind, let's build a site to help The Kennel!

## Design Thinking

Applying a *Design Thinking* approach, what *features* would users find most useful on the developed site?  How feasible is it for an inexperienced student developer to deliver prioritised features given the time constraints of a hard deadline?

As per assessment criteria, this project must utilise CRUD functionality.  This provides a broad outline of what is needed.  A brief though shower offered the following:

| Feature                                 | Importance | Feasability |
|:----------------------------------------|:----------:|:-----------:|
| View available services                 | 4          | 5           |
| Create personal account                 | 5          | 5           |
| Update account information              | 5          | 5           |
| Able to cancel account                  | 5          | 5           |
| Make an appoinment                      | 5          | 5           |
| Review latest appointment date/time     | 3          | 4           |
| Able to change/cancel an appointment    | 3          | 4           |
| Send client booking detail via email    | 2          | 4           |
| View history of all appointments made   | 2          | 3           |
| View costs of previous appointments     | 2          | 1           |
| Owner has calendar view of daily clients| 4          | 3           |
| **Overall Score**                       | **40**     | **44**      |

The above exercise indicates that overall importance/feasability scores were similar.  Therefore the project should be deliverable.
