TESTING.md, before:

# Testing

A variety of manual and automated tests were performed throughout the project.

## Manual Testing

**#1. Getting the live deployed site working**

This is well documented in the latter sections of [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)

**#2. Checking the deployed site opens on the homepage**

- create a function based view in home
- create a path in the url file in the home app
- reference the home app url in the main project url file

*home/views.py*
``` Python
def index(request):
    """
    Index view
    """
    return render(request, 'home/index.html')
```
*home/urls.py*
``` Python
path('', views.index, name='index'),
```
*main/urls.py*
``` Python
path('', include('home.urls'), name='home_index'),
```

![live-deployment-homepage](docs/readme/testing/01-live-deployment-homepage.png "live-deployment-homepage")

**#3. Check own `css` and `js` files link up to `base.html` via `head.html` and `scripts.html`**

These are component files that get inserted to `base.html` using Django Templates.


*static/css/style.css*
``` css
- body {
    background-color: greenyellow;
}
```

*referenced in templates/includes/head.html*
``` html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'css/style.css' %}" type="text/css">
```

*injected into base.html using*
``` Python
    {% include 'includes/head.html' %}
```


*static/js/script.js*
``` Javascript
console.log("Homepage")
```

*referenced into templates/includes/scripts.html*
``` html
<script src="{% static 'js/script.js' %}"></script>
```

*injected to base.html using*
```html
{% include 'includes/scripts.html' %}
```

The test is successful as the `body` has a greenyellow background colour and `Homepage` text is logged to the console in Chrome.

![check-css-js-links-to-base-template](docs/readme/testing/02-check-css-js-links-to-base-template.png "check-css-js-links-to-base-template")


**#4. Getting the favicon to display on the browser tab**

In the plate above you'll also notice a favicon present.  The test was successful as you can see it.

*templates/includes/head.html*
``` html
<link rel="icon" href="{% static 'img/dog-favicon.png' %}" type="image/x-icon" sizes="32x32">
```

**#5. Checking static folder is working on deployed site**

Any images stored in `static/img/` folder should display when deployed.  Remember to delete the DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC config var in Heroku Settings by clicking on the X.

![ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed](docs/readme/testing/03-ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed.png "ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed")

When I did deleted this config var and tried to redeploy, the build log stated `python manage.py collectstatic --noinput`.

This prompted a different approach to handling static files by installing the [`dotenv`](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/) python package.  From there i updated the `requirements.txt` file and `settings.py` and `env.py` files in the project before pushing to GitHub again.

![ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed](docs/readme/testing/04-ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed.png "ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed")

Success. The hero image from the static folder now works on the deployed site resolving [issue #25](https://github.com/StevenWeir038/Kennel39/projects/2#card-78901276) in GitHub.

**#6. Ensure social media links in footer open in a new browser tab**

These are generic for the project.  No social content exists as the business does not exist.

![social-media-links-open-in-new-tab](docs/readme/testing/05-social-media-links-open-in-new-tab.png "social-media-links-open-in-new-tab")

**#7. Check index.html template is using base.html template**

Extend `base.html` content to any view by using `{% extends 'base.html' %}` at the top of each file.  Best to test this on the site landing page as this is the first one that is created.

*home/templates/home/index.html*
``` html
{% extends 'base.html' %}
{% load static %}

{% block content %}
<h1>Homepage</h1>  <!-- unique content -->
{% endblock %}
```

Note, the `home` app urls are already linked up to `main` urls as checked in **#2**.


*templates/base.html*
``` html
    <p>base.html</p>  <!-- remove after demo for TESTING.md -->

    {% block content %}
    <!-- content goes here -->
    {% endblock %}
```

The base.html text originates from the `base.html` file.
The h1 heading containing text *Homepage* only exists in `index.html`.

![check-base-injecting-to-index-view](docs/readme/testing/06-check-base-injecting-to-index-view.png "check-base-injecting-to-index-view")

**#8** Correct `settings.py` and `.env` file setup.
After resolving [issue #25](https://github.com/StevenWeir038/Kennel39/projects/2#card-78901276), I found I lost my database connection when working in the development environment.  Great learning exercise on setting up [environment variables](https://github.com/StevenWeir038/Kennel39/commit/a55b3abca2dbb5fe24304ec0273901f3c7c34ccd) correctly.

**#9** Check `allauth` working with nav links.
Allauth did the hard work for signup/login/logout.  Just had to configure `navbar.html` with Django templates to check authentication. 

A test account was created to check it worked.

``` html
<ul class="navbar-nav justify-content-end flex-grow-1 pe-3">
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link active" aria-current="page" href="#">Home</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="#">Our Services</a>
    </li>
    {% if user.is_authenticated %}
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="{% url 'account_logout' %}">Logout</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="#">Book Appointment</a>
    </li>
    {% else %}
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="{% url 'account_signup' %}">Register</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="{% url 'account_login' %}">Login</a>
    </li>
    {% endif %}
</ul>
```

*Unregistered/Logged out menu*

![check-logged-out-menu](docs/readme/testing/07-check-logged-out-menu.png "check-logged-out-menu")

*Login page*

![allauth-login-page](docs/readme/testing/08-allauth-login-page.png "allauth-login-page")

*Registered/Logged in menu*

![check-logged-in-menu](docs/readme/testing/09-check-logged-in-menu.png "check-logged-in-menu")

*Logout page*

![allauth-logout-page](docs/readme/testing/10-allauth-logout-page.png "allauth-logout-page")

*Proof of Registration in site admin*

![reg-users-site-admin-page](docs/readme/testing/11-reg-users-site-admin-page.png "reg-users-site-admin-page")

**#10** Check 1st model has successfully migrated. (same checks to be applied to all subsequent models after creation or update)

In CLI, type `python3 manage.py makemigrations --dry-run` to view unexecuted effect. This tells Django to create instructions that build a new database table in the `home` app.

Remove the ` --dry-run` flag to perform the action.

Use the `python3 manage.py showmigrations` command to see a list of existing migrations.  The absence of an `X` in the home app 0001_initial tells us we have yet to migrate this particular model to build the database table in the backend.

![makemigrations-profile-model](docs/readme/testing/12-makemigrations-profile-model.png "makemigrations-profile-model")

To create the database table in the backend type `python3 manage.py migrate` into the terminal. Similar to the --dry-run tag in makemigrations, the ` --plan` flag can be used to preview the effects of migrating before applying.

![migrate-profile-model](docs/readme/testing/13-migrate-profile-model.png "migrate-profile-model")

To reiterate, `makemigrations` are the instructions to build a table, the `migrate` command actually to builds it. 

## Automated Testing

Return to [README.md](README.md)

Commit message:

Register profile model with admin and test

TESTING.md, after:

# Testing

A variety of manual and automated tests were performed throughout the project.

## Manual Testing

**#1. Getting the live deployed site working**

This is well documented in the latter sections of [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)

**#2. Checking the deployed site opens on the homepage**

- create a function based view in home
- create a path in the url file in the home app
- reference the home app url in the main project url file

*home/views.py*
``` Python
def index(request):
    """
    Index view
    """
    return render(request, 'home/index.html')
```
*home/urls.py*
``` Python
path('', views.index, name='index'),
```
*main/urls.py*
``` Python
path('', include('home.urls'), name='home_index'),
```

![live-deployment-homepage](docs/readme/testing/01-live-deployment-homepage.png "live-deployment-homepage")

**#3. Check own `css` and `js` files link up to `base.html` via `head.html` and `scripts.html`**

These are component files that get inserted to `base.html` using Django Templates.


*static/css/style.css*
``` css
- body {
    background-color: greenyellow;
}
```

*referenced in templates/includes/head.html*
``` html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'css/style.css' %}" type="text/css">
```

*injected into base.html using*
``` Python
    {% include 'includes/head.html' %}
```


*static/js/script.js*
``` Javascript
console.log("Homepage")
```

*referenced into templates/includes/scripts.html*
``` html
<script src="{% static 'js/script.js' %}"></script>
```

*injected to base.html using*
```html
{% include 'includes/scripts.html' %}
```

The test is successful as the `body` has a greenyellow background colour and `Homepage` text is logged to the console in Chrome.

![check-css-js-links-to-base-template](docs/readme/testing/02-check-css-js-links-to-base-template.png "check-css-js-links-to-base-template")


**#4. Getting the favicon to display on the browser tab**

In the plate above you'll also notice a favicon present.  The test was successful as you can see it.

*templates/includes/head.html*
``` html
<link rel="icon" href="{% static 'img/dog-favicon.png' %}" type="image/x-icon" sizes="32x32">
```

**#5. Checking static folder is working on deployed site**

Any images stored in `static/img/` folder should display when deployed.  Remember to delete the DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC config var in Heroku Settings by clicking on the X.

![ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed](docs/readme/testing/03-ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed.png "ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed")

When I did deleted this config var and tried to redeploy, the build log stated `python manage.py collectstatic --noinput`.

This prompted a different approach to handling static files by installing the [`dotenv`](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/) python package.  From there i updated the `requirements.txt` file and `settings.py` and `env.py` files in the project before pushing to GitHub again.

![ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed](docs/readme/testing/04-ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed.png "ensure-static-files-work-when-deployed")

Success. The hero image from the static folder now works on the deployed site resolving [issue #25](https://github.com/StevenWeir038/Kennel39/projects/2#card-78901276) in GitHub.

**#6. Ensure social media links in footer open in a new browser tab**

These are generic for the project.  No social content exists as the business does not exist.

![social-media-links-open-in-new-tab](docs/readme/testing/05-social-media-links-open-in-new-tab.png "social-media-links-open-in-new-tab")

**#7. Check index.html template is using base.html template**

Extend `base.html` content to any view by using `{% extends 'base.html' %}` at the top of each file.  Best to test this on the site landing page as this is the first one that is created.

*home/templates/home/index.html*
``` html
{% extends 'base.html' %}
{% load static %}

{% block content %}
<h1>Homepage</h1>  <!-- unique content -->
{% endblock %}
```

Note, the `home` app urls are already linked up to `main` urls as checked in **#2**.


*templates/base.html*
``` html
    <p>base.html</p>  <!-- remove after demo for TESTING.md -->

    {% block content %}
    <!-- content goes here -->
    {% endblock %}
```

The base.html text originates from the `base.html` file.
The h1 heading containing text *Homepage* only exists in `index.html`.

![check-base-injecting-to-index-view](docs/readme/testing/06-check-base-injecting-to-index-view.png "check-base-injecting-to-index-view")

**#8** Correct `settings.py` and `.env` file setup.
After resolving [issue #25](https://github.com/StevenWeir038/Kennel39/projects/2#card-78901276), I found I lost my database connection when working in the development environment.  Great learning exercise on setting up [environment variables](https://github.com/StevenWeir038/Kennel39/commit/a55b3abca2dbb5fe24304ec0273901f3c7c34ccd) correctly.

**#9** Check `allauth` working with nav links.
Allauth did the hard work for signup/login/logout.  Just had to configure `navbar.html` with Django templates to check authentication. 

A test account was created to check it worked.

``` html
<ul class="navbar-nav justify-content-end flex-grow-1 pe-3">
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link active" aria-current="page" href="#">Home</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="#">Our Services</a>
    </li>
    {% if user.is_authenticated %}
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="{% url 'account_logout' %}">Logout</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="#">Book Appointment</a>
    </li>
    {% else %}
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="{% url 'account_signup' %}">Register</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="{% url 'account_login' %}">Login</a>
    </li>
    {% endif %}
</ul>
```

*Unregistered/Logged out menu*

![check-logged-out-menu](docs/readme/testing/07-check-logged-out-menu.png "check-logged-out-menu")

*Login page*

![allauth-login-page](docs/readme/testing/08-allauth-login-page.png "allauth-login-page")

*Registered/Logged in menu*

![check-logged-in-menu](docs/readme/testing/09-check-logged-in-menu.png "check-logged-in-menu")

*Logout page*

![allauth-logout-page](docs/readme/testing/10-allauth-logout-page.png "allauth-logout-page")

*Proof of Registration in site admin*

![reg-users-site-admin-page](docs/readme/testing/11-reg-users-site-admin-page.png "reg-users-site-admin-page")

**#10** Check 1st model has successfully migrated. (same checks to be applied to all subsequent models after creation or update)

In CLI, type `python3 manage.py makemigrations --dry-run` to view unexecuted effect. This tells Django to create instructions that build a new database table in the `home` app.

Remove the ` --dry-run` flag to perform the action.

Use the `python3 manage.py showmigrations` command to see a list of existing migrations.  The absence of an `X` in the home app 0001_initial tells us we have yet to migrate this particular model to build the database table in the backend.

![makemigrations-profile-model](docs/readme/testing/12-makemigrations-profile-model.png "makemigrations-profile-model")

To create the database table in the backend type `python3 manage.py migrate` into the terminal. Similar to the --dry-run tag in makemigrations, the ` --plan` flag can be used to preview the effects of migrating before applying.

![migrate-profile-model](docs/readme/testing/13-migrate-profile-model.png "migrate-profile-model")

To reiterate, `makemigrations` are the instructions to build a table, the `migrate` command actually to builds it. 

It is now possible to create profiles programatically though I wanted to test with the Django admin utility.

To do so the model must be registered within the apps `admin` file.

``` python
from django.contrib import admin

from .models import Profile  # from current directory model file import Profile model

# Register your models here
admin.site.register(Profile)
```

In Django admin, the `OneToOneField` is shown to work as users can be selected from the dropdown list.  Remember how these users were created using `Allauth`...

![profile-model-in-django-admin](docs/readme/testing/14-profile-model-in-django-admin.png "profile-model-in-django-admin")

## Automated Testing

Return to [README.md](README.md)
